Welcome back everyone.
In this lecture we're going to be discussing virtual environments.
The reason we actually need them.
And then how we can use Anaconda's built in a virtual environment manager to quickly create one.
So Let's first discuss the motivation behind the virtual environment.
Imagine that you've launched your web application and you're using some sort of external Python library
that's known as a dependency because your dependence on that external Python library.
Now the feature that library most likely is going to get updated to a newer version and often these
updates they have new features that you want to use in your web site.
But they also have what's known as breaking changes where their syntax has changed slightly and your
old code won't work anymore.
So now you have a problem where you want to use the new features but in order to use those new features
you're going to have to edit all your code.
So what can I do in that aspect.
Well what you do is you use a virtual environment to help manage these dependencies.
And that way each version of your project can have its own distinct environment or each of your projects
can have their own distinct environment.
Depends on how you want to organize your workflow but the basic idea here is that we can have one environment
with certain versions of these dependencies and then create a new environment with the newer updated
versions of those dependencies and kind of mix and match to whichever environments we want.
And that way we don't need to worry about breaking changes.
We can just switch out the virtual environments that we're working with now Anaconda.
It comes with a built in environment manager and we need to run some steps at our command line in order
to create the environment to create an environment.
Once you've installed Anaconda at your command line all you need to do is type Konda create dash dash
name my EMV or whatever you want to call your environment.
And then we'll ask you yes or no.
You can go ahead and press y to continue.
So let me quickly explain what's happening here.
First off we have that Khanda that's basically a keyword telling you that you're going to be calling
Konda from Anaconda which allows you to create and do things in virtual environments.
And once you click on the second word They're just saying create.
So create a new environment then you have this what's known as a flag name and that's basically saying
the next thing that's going to come right after this name flag is the actual name of the environment.
So here the name of the environment that we're choosing is my ESV.
So you can edit this last box here.
My EMV.
To call your environment whatever you want you can call it my flask environment my first environment
whatever you prefer.
Now it's creating an environment with a specific package already included in that environment.
We can do is say can create dash.
And so it's a little shorter of a flag than dash dash name and then passing the name of your environment
space and then passen the actual specific package you want included such as numb pie or whatever package
you're interested in to create an environment with a specific version of Python where you can do is
say Konda create an either or dash and or dash dash name and then the name of your environment.
Space Python is equal to and then the version of Python you want and then kind of combine these ideas
together.
You can create an environment with a specific package version included you say Conda create and or dash
dash name then the name of your environment.
The name of your package equal to and then what version of that package you want and if you ever need
a list of all your environments you can say the envy list OK.
So let's quickly create our flask environment.
I also want to point out that in the resources for this lecture there's a link to the environment documentation.
The documentation is actually fantastic for this particular topic.
We're also going to be showing you that in just a little bit but it has basically everything you would
ever want to know about Conon vitamins how to manage the environments how to create environments list
environments restore environments save environments that where you can create an environment and send
that to your coworkers or colleagues.
But we're going to show you that quickly walk through the documentation there and then we'll create
our flask environment that we'll be using through this course.
Let's get started.
All right so very quickly I just wanted to show you the documentation page in condos actually also an
open source package man image management system and environment management system.
And it runs on Windows Mac Office or Linux and we're mainly going to be using the environment managed
system that Konda provides for us.
And if you want more information about the various tasks that you can do of Khanda when you're working
a virtual environments click on user guide and then come down here where it says tasks.
There's also a nice tutorial section but the task is probably what you can me referring to the most.
If you want to manage your environments then click on managing environments.
And here's basically all the things you would ever want to do.
Create an environment of certain commands create an environment from a thought why M-L file which is
a way you can send environments to other people.
You can clone environments activate de-activate and we're going to be going through that in just a little
bit but you can also view a list of your environments use Pipp and so on.
So lots of things you can do here remove environments share environments and that will just be on there
if we go back here just so I can show you go to under the user guide tasks and then managing environments
right here.
And that has a list of everything you can do.
So let's now jump over to our Adam text editor and quickly create environment and you can actually do
this at your terminal command line.
I'll do it within the Adam text editor.
All right so here I am at my command line.
I'm just using the one that we've installed into Adam.
But you can do this at your terminal or command line even outside of Adam.
We're going to do is create a new environment.
We will say condo space create an either that name or just dash and for short.
Then type in the name of your environment and call us environment whatever you want.
The only thing you can't do is if you already have an environment named this you can't repeat the names.
So we'll say my flask.
Ian the and then will say space flask because we want flasks to be installed along with this environment
will hit enter and it will say solving environment.
Eventually I'll ask if you want to install a bunch of things and notice that it's installing a lot more
than just flasks.
And the reason for that is because flask may have some dependencies itself that it's also going to be
installing.
So you notice here kind of near the top.
It's the selling Jinja too.
So it's something that flask needs so we'll go ahead and install this.
Why.
And then it's going to download and extract all these packages for you and the package is going to be
a little different depending on your operating system.
I will jump forward in time until this is finished installing.
OK so we jumped forward in time and we finished installing everything and now we need to activate the
environment in order to use it.
So to activate this environment on a Windows computer all you need to do is like it says here say activate
and in the name of your environment.
Now if you're using bash and that basically means if you're on a Mac OS or a Linux computer you must
use source activate.
So if you're on a Mac OS or Linux computer you're going to type source activates and in the name of
your environment.
So my flask envy since I am on a Windows computer.
I'm just going to type activate.
So again source is only for people using bash which is typically Mac OS and Linux users so will select
activate my flask in V and then once it's activated you should see over here on the left hand side that
in parentheses it says my flask in V and that basically the notes that your environment is bent has
been activated.
Now notice here if I see the dot dot to go back up the directory my environment is still activated and
that basically means that I can go around my computer find different python files in my environment
will be activated.
So once I call Python in any location of my computer this particular version of Python is whatever particular
version is associated with my class envy.
So that means if I try to import other libraries maybe I try to import some pie I'll enter.
It's going to say module not found.
That's because we haven't installed the numpty library in my flask environment but if I type out import
flask it's going to have no problem because we specifically requested a flask to be installed upon creating
that environment.
So let's type here if you ever want to add more libraries this environment all you need to do is say
Konda install and then the name of the library.
So if you for whatever reason wanted no imply there you would just say can install non-pay.
The only caveat being you'd have to make sure that your environment is activated when you installed
this.
OK so we won't need them Pine-Sol I won't install that.
OK and finally to deactivate the environment.
All we need to do is type the Activate enter and you'll notice now we no longer have the print C's indicating
that my environment is activated and again if you're a Mac OS or Linux computers you're going to want
to type source de-activate And then if you want to reactivate the environment it will say activate my
flask NV enter and there we have our flask environment activated.
All right.
So working in virtual environments definitely a big part of web development especially if Python to
make sure that you never have any dependency issues.
So we're going to be working with this mask or my Flast environment later on in this course.
Thanks everyone and I'll see at the next lecture.